.\" Hey, Emacs! This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Manoj Srivastava <srivasta@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.TH SE_DPKG "8" "January 2008" "Security Enhanced Linux" NSA
.SH NAME
se_dpkg,se_apt-get,se_aptitude,se_dpkg-reconfigure,se_dselect,se_synaptic \- run a Debian package system programs in the proper security context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B se_dpkg
[ \fI <<dpkg ARGS>>\fR ... ] 
.br
.B se_apt-get
[ \fI<<apt-get ARGS>>\fR ... ] 
.br
.B se_aptitude
[ \fI<<aptitude ARGS>>\fR ... ] 
.br
.B se_dpkg-reconfigure
[ \fI<<dpkg-reconfigure ARGS>>\fR ... ] 
.br
.B se_dselect
[ \fI<<dselect ARGS>>\fR ... ] 
.br
.B se_synaptic
[\fI <<synaptic ARGS>>\fR ... ] 
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These programs are all symbolic links to a simple wrapper script that uses
.B run_init 
to run actually run the corresponding program after setting up the
proper context. 
.B run_init
acquires a new Psuedo terminal, forks a child process that binds to
the pseudo terminal, forks the program
.BI (dpkg, apt\-get, aptitude, synaptic, dselect, or dpkg\-reconfigure)
that the user actually needs to run, and then sits around and connects
the physical terminal it was invoked upon with the psuedo terminal,
passing keyboard into to the child process, and passing the output of
the child process to the physical terminal.
.PP
It sets up the psuedo terminal properly based on the physical terminal
attributes, and then sets the user's terminal to RAW mode, taking care
to reset it on exit.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Manoj Srivastava <srivasta@debian.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system.
