.TH QUOTASYNC 1
.SH NAME
quotasync \- synchronize in-kernel file system usage and limits to disk format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quotasync
[
.B -ugP
] 
.IR mount-point ...
.br
.B quotasync
[
.B -ugP
] 
.B -a
.br
.B quotasync
.B -h
|
.B -V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B quotasync
flushes file system usage and limits from kernel memory to quota files stored
in the file system. By default only the user quotas are synchronized.
.P
This tool can be useful if you want to display accurate quotas by tools that
parse quota files, like
.BR repquota (8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -u, --user
Synchronize user usage and limits.
.TP
.B -g, --group
Synchronize group usage and limits.
.TP
.B -P, --project
Synchronize project usage and limits.
.TP
.B -a, --all
Synchronize usage and limits on all file systems. You have to specify this
option or to specify desired file systems.
.TP
.B -V, --version
Show program version information and exit.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show program usage and exit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If requested synchronization fails, or invalid option is given,
.B quotasync
will terminate with non-zero exit code. Otherwise it will return zero.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 16
.B aquota.user " or " aquota.group
Quota file at the file system root (version 2 quota, non-XFS/GFS2 file systems).
.TP 16
.B quota.user " or " quota.group
Quota file at the file system root (version 1 quota, non-XFS/GFS2 file systems).
.TP 16
.B /etc/mtab
List of mounted file systems maintained by user space.
.TP 16
.B /proc/mounts
List of mounted file systems maintained by kernel.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR mount (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8),
.BR warnquota (8).
