.TH WARNQUOTA.CONF 5
.SH NAME
warnquota.conf \- configuration for warnquota
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/warnquota.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B warnquota.conf
file stores a configuration for
.BR warnquota (8)
tool which is used to notify a user or a group who exceeds its disk quota
limits.
.P
The syntax is an option name followed by an equal sign and the option value.
White space characters surrounding the option names and values are allowed.
.P
Empty lines or lines starting with a hash sign or a semicolon are ignored.
.P
An option value can but does not have to be quoted. The value can span
across multiple lines provided each previous line ends with a backslash.
.P
Some option values can contain formatting sequences which will be expanded to
their respective values. Following sequences are recognized:
.P
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B %d
domain name
.TP
.B %h
host name
.TP
.BR "%i" ", " "%s"
user or group name
.TP
.B %%
literal % character
.TP
.B |
new-line character
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B CC_BEFORE
Send to copy-carbon address only when a user has less than specified grace time
left. Value is a number followed by a time unit. Known units are
.IR seconds ,
.IR minutes ,
.IR hours ", and"
.IR days .
Example:
.I 5 days
.TP
.B CC_TO
An e-mail address to put into copy-carbon (CC:) recipient header. Default
value is
.IR root .
.TP
.B CHARSET
Defines character set for sent e-mails. Default value will be current locale
character set used when executing warnquota command, if locale is not either
.I C
or
.IR POSIX .
Otherwise no character set will be specified in the e-mails.
.TP
.B FROM
Defines From: e-email address. Default value is
.IR "support@localhost" .
.TP
.B GROUP_MESSAGE
A text sent as an e-mail body if a group exceeds its limits. This option
recognizes formatting sequences.
.TP
.B GROUP_SIGNATURE
A signature text appended to notification for a group. Default value is
a general explanation utilizing
.B SUPPORT
and
.B PHONE
values. This option recognizes formatting sequences.
.TP
.B LDAP_BASEDN
Base distinguished name for LDAP queries.
.TP
.B LDAP_BINDDN
Bind distinguished name for LDAP queries.
.TP
.B LDAP_BINDPW
Bind password for LDAP queries.
.TP
.B LDAP_DEFAULT_MAIL_DOMAIN
Default e-mail address domain of searched user if given LDAP attribute does
not specify any.
.TP
.B LDAP_HOST
LDAP server name to connect to if
.B LDAP_URI
is not defined.
.TP
.B LDAP_MAIL
A boolean controlling if LDAP has to be used to look up user's e-mail
address. Possible values are
.I true
and
.IR false .
Default value is
.IR false .
.TP
.B LDAP_MAIL_ATTRIBUTE
The LDAP attribute which holds user's e-mail address.
.TP
.B LDAP_PORT
LDAP server port number to connect to if
.B LDAP_URI
is not defined.
.TP
.B LDAP_SEARCH_ATTRIBUTE
The LDAP attribute which holds user's ID to look up.
.TP
.B LDAP_URI
The URL of LDAP server to use to search user's e-mail addresses. This option
takes preference over
.B LDAP_HOST
and
.BR LDAP_PORT .
Example:
.I ldaps://example.com:389/
.TP
.B MESSAGE
A beginning of text sent as an e-mail body if a user exceeds his limits. This
option recognizes formatting sequences.
.TP
.B MAIL_CMD
The command to execute to send an e-mail. The e-mail text including all
headers is passed to the standard input of the command. Default value is
.IR "/usr/lib/sendmail -t" .
.TP
.B MAILDEV
The device with disk quotas to exclude from sending notifications if there are
exceeded limits. This option should identify the device where mail boxes are
stored to prevent from bouncing the warnquota notification by local MDA due to
no space for storing new e-mails. Special value
.I any
denotes all devices.
.TP
.B PHONE
The telephone contact to the user support. Default value is
.IR "(xxx) xxx-xxxx or (yyy) yyy-yyyy" .
.TP
.B SIGNATURE
The end of e-mail body if a user exceeds its limits. Default value is
a general explanation utilizing
.B SUPPORT
and
.B PHONE
values. This option recognizes formatting sequences.
.TP
.B SUBJECT
The text to put into Subject: header. Default value is
.IR "Disk Quota usage on system" .
.TP
.B SUPPORT
The contact to the user support. Default value is
.IR "support@localhost" .
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
# comment
.RS 0
FROM = root@example.com
.RS 0
SUPPORT = support@example.com
.RS 0
PHONE = 1234
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /etc/warnquota.conf
configuration for
.BR warnquota (8)
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR warnquota (8).
