.TH EDQUOTA 8
.SH NAME
edquota \- edit user quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B edquota
[
.B \-p
.I protoname
] [
.BR \-u \ |
.BR \-g \ |
.B \-P
] [
.B \-rm
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
] [
.B \-f
.I filesystem
]
.IR username \ |
.IR groupname \ |
.IR projectname .\|.\|.
.LP
.B edquota
[
.BR \-u \ |
.BR \-g \ |
.B \-P
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
] [
.B \-f
.I filesystem
]
.B \-t
.LP
.B edquota
[
.BR \-u \ |
.BR \-g \ |
.B \-P
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
] [
.B \-f
.I filesystem
]
.B \-T
.IR username \ |
.IR groupname \ |
.IR projectname .\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  edit "user quotas \(em \fLedquota\fP"
.IX  "user quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.IX  "filesystem"  "edquota command"  ""  "\fLedquota\fP \(em edit user quotas"
.B edquota
is a quota editor.  One or more users, groups, or projects may be specified
on the command line. If a number is given in the place of user/group/project
name it is treated as an UID/GID/Project ID. For each user, group, or project
a temporary file is created with an
.SM ASCII
representation of the current disk quotas for that user, group, or project and
an editor is then invoked on the file.  The quotas may then be modified, new
quotas added, etc.
Setting a quota to zero indicates that no quota should be imposed.
.PP
Block usage and limits are reported and interpreted as multiples of kibibyte
(1024 bytes) blocks by default. Symbols K, M, G, and T can be appended to
numeric value to express kibibytes, mebibytes, gibibytes, and tebibytes.
.PP
Inode usage and limits are interpreted literally. Symbols k, m, g, and t can
be appended to numeric value to express multiples of 10^3, 10^6, 10^9, and
10^12 inodes.
.PP
Users are permitted to exceed their soft limits for a grace period that
may be specified per filesystem.  Once the grace period has expired, the
soft limit is enforced as a hard limit.
.PP
The current usage information in the file is for informational purposes;
only the hard and soft limits can be changed.
.PP
Upon leaving the editor,
.B edquota
reads the temporary file and modifies the binary quota files to reflect
the changes made.
.LP
The editor invoked is
.BR vi (1)
unless either the
.SB EDITOR
or the
.SB VISUAL
environment variable specifies otherwise.
.LP
Only the super-user may edit quotas.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -r, --remote
Edit also non-local quota use rpc.rquotad on remote server to set quota.
This option is available only if quota tools were compiled with enabled
support for setting quotas over RPC.
The
.B -n
option is equivalent, and is maintained for backward compatibility.
.TP
.B -m, --no-mixed-pathnames
Currently, pathnames of NFSv4 mountpoints are sent without leading slash in the path.
.BR rpc.rquotad
uses this to recognize NFSv4 mounts and properly prepend pseudoroot of NFS filesystem
to the path. If you specify this option, 
.BR edquota 
will always send paths with a leading slash. This can be useful for legacy reasons but
be aware that quota over RPC will stop working if you are using new
.BR rpc.rquotad .
.TP
.B -u, --user
Edit the user quota. This is the default.
.TP
.B -g, --group
Edit the group quota.
.TP
.B -P, --project
Edit the project quota.
.TP
.B -p, --prototype=\f2protoname\f1
Duplicate the quotas of the prototypical user
specified for each user specified.  This is the normal
mechanism used to initialize quotas for groups of users.
.TP
.B --always-resolve
Always try to translate user / group name to uid / gid even if the name
is composed of digits only.
.TP
.B -F, --format=\f2format-name\f1
Edit quota for specified format (ie. don't perform format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original quota format with 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format with 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage and limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format with 64-bit quota limits and usage,
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B \-f, --filesystem \f2filesystem\f1
Perform specified operations only for given filesystem (default is to perform
operations for all filesystems with quota).
.TP
.B \-t, --edit-period
Edit the soft time limits for each filesystem.
In old quota format if the time limits are zero, the default time limits in
.B <linux/quota.h>
are used. In new quota format time limits must be specified (there is no default
value set in kernel). Time units of 'seconds', 'minutes', 'hours', and 'days'
are understood. Time limits are printed in the greatest possible time unit such that
the value is greater than or equal to one.
.TP
.B \-T, --edit-times
Edit time for the user/group/project when softlimit is enforced. Possible values
are 'unset' or number and unit. Units are the same as in
.B \-t
option.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BR aquota.user " or " aquota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.BR quota.user " or " quota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
mounted filesystems table
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quota (1),
.BR vi (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8),
.BR setquota (8)
