.TH REPQUOTA 8
.UC 4
.SH NAME
repquota \- summarize quotas for a filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/sbin/repquota
[
.B \-vspiugP
] [
.B \-c
|
.B \-C
] [
.B \-t
|
.B \-n
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.IR filesystem .\|.\|.
.LP
.B /usr/sbin/repquota
[
.B \-avtpsiugP
] [
.B \-c
|
.B \-C
] [
.B \-t
|
.B \-n
] [
.B \-F
.I format-name
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "user quotas"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "filesystem"  "repquota command"  ""  "\fLrepquota\fP \(em summarize quotas"
.IX  "summarize filesystem quotas repquota"  ""  "summarize filesystem quotas \(em \fLrepquota\fP"
.IX  "report filesystem quotas repquota"  ""  "report filesystem quotas \(em \fLrepquota\fP"
.IX  display "filesystem quotas \(em \fLrepquota\fP"
.LP
.B repquota
prints a summary of the disc usage and quotas for the specified file
systems.  For each user the current number of files and amount of space
(in kilobytes) is printed, along with any quota limits set with
.BR edquota (8) 
or
.BR setquota (8).
In the second column repquota prints two characters marking which limits are
exceeded. If user is over his space softlimit or reaches his space hardlimit in
case softlimit is unset, the first character is '+'. Otherwise the character
printed is '-'. The second character denotes the state of inode usage
analogously.

.B repquota
has to translate ids of all users/groups/projects to names (unless option
.B -n
was specified) so it may take a while to
print all the information. To make translating as fast as possible
.B repquota
tries to detect (by reading
.BR /etc/nsswitch.conf )
whether entries are stored in standard plain text file or in a database and either
translates chunks of 1024 names or each name individually. You can override this
autodetection by
.B -c
or
.B -C
options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a, --all
Report on all filesystems indicated in
.B /etc/mtab
to be read-write with quotas.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Report all quotas, even if there is no usage. Be also more verbose about quotafile
information.
.TP
.B -c, --cache
Cache entries to report and translate uids/gids to names in big chunks by scanning
all users (default). This is good (fast) behaviour when using /etc/passwd file.
.TP
.B -C, --no-cache
Translate individual entries. This is faster when you have users stored in database.
.TP
.B -t, --truncate-names
Truncate user/group names longer than 9 characters. This results in nicer output when
there are such names.
.TP
.B -n, --no-names
Don't resolve UIDs/GIDs to names. This can speedup printing a lot.
.TP
.B -s, --human-readable
Try to report used space, number of used inodes and limits in more appropriate units
than the default ones.
.TP
.B -p, --raw-grace
When user is in grace period, report time in seconds since epoch when his grace
time runs out (or has run out). Field is '0' when no grace time is in effect.
This is especially useful when parsing output by a script.
.TP
.B -i, --no-autofs
Ignore mountpoints mounted by automounter.
.TP
.B \-F, --format=\f2format-name\f1
Report quota for specified format (ie. don't perform format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original quota format with 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format with 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage and limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format with 64-bit quota limits and usage,
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B -g, --group
Report quotas for groups.
.TP
.B -P, --project
Report quotas for projects.
.TP
.B -u, --user
Report quotas for users. This is the default.
.TP
.B -O, --output=\f2format-name\f1
Output quota report in the specified format.
Possible format names are:
.B default
The default format, optimized for console viewing
.B csv
Comma-separated values, a text file with the columns delimited by commas
.B xml
Output is XML encoded, useful for processing with XSLT
.LP
Only the super-user may view quotas which are not their own.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BR aquota.user " or " aquota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.BR quota.user " or " quota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
default filesystems
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
default set of users
.TP
.B /etc/group
default set of groups
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR edquota (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR quota_nld (8),
.BR setquota (8),
.BR warnquota (8)
