.TH SETQUOTA 8
.SH NAME
setquota \- set disk quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B setquota
[
.B \-rm
]
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
|
.B \-P
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.I name
.I block-softlimit
.I block-hardlimit
.I inode-softlimit
.I inode-hardlimit
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B setquota
[
.B \-rm
]
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
|
.B \-P
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
[
.B \-p
.I protoname 
]
.I name
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B setquota
.B \-b
[
.B \-rm
]
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
|
.B \-P
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B setquota
.B \-t
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
|
.B \-P
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.I block-grace
.I inode-grace
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.LP
.B setquota
.B \-T
[
.B \-u
|
.B \-g
|
.B \-P
]
[
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
]
.I name
.I block-grace
.I inode-grace
.B \-a
|
.I filesystem...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  set "disk quotas \(em \fLsetquota\fP"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  "disk quotas"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  "quotas"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.IX  "filesystem"  "setquota command"  ""  "\fLsetquota\fP \(em set disk quotas"
.B setquota
is a command line quota editor.
The filesystem, user/group/project name and new quotas for this
filesystem can be specified on the command line. Note that if a number is
given in the place of a user/group/project name it is treated as an UID/GID/project ID.
.TP
.B -r, --remote
Edit also remote quota use rpc.rquotad on remote server to set quota. This
option is available only if quota tools were compiled with enabled support
for setting quotas over RPC.
.TP
.B -m, --no-mixed-pathnames
Currently, pathnames of NFSv4 mountpoints are sent without leading slash in the path.
.BR rpc.rquotad
uses this to recognize NFSv4 mounts and properly prepend pseudoroot of NFS filesystem
to the path. If you specify this option,
.BR setquota
will always send paths with a leading slash. This can be useful for legacy reasons but
be aware that quota over RPC will stop working if you are using new
.BR rpc.rquotad .
.TP
.B -F, --format=\f2quotaformat\f1
Perform setting for specified format (ie. don't perform format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original quota format with 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format with 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage and limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format with 64-bit quota limits and usage,
.B rpc
(quota over NFS),
.B xfs
(quota on XFS filesystem)
.TP
.B -u, --user
Set user quotas for named user. This is the default.
.TP
.B -g, --group
Set group quotas for named group.
.TP
.B -P, --project
Set project quotas for named project.
.TP
.B -p, --prototype=\f2protoname\f1
Use quota settings of user, group or project
.I protoname
to set the quota for the named user, group or project.
.TP
.B --always-resolve
Always try to translate user / group / project name to
uid / gid / project ID even if the name is composed of
digits only.
.TP
.B -b, --batch
Read information to set from stdin (input format is
.I name block-softlimit block-hardlimit inode-softlimit inode-hardlimit
). Empty lines and lines starting with # are ignored.
.TP
.B -c, --continue-batch
If parsing of an input line in batch mode fails, continue with processing the next line.
.TP
.B -t, --edit-period
Set grace times for users/groups/projects. Times
.B block-grace
and
.B inode-grace
are specified in seconds.
.TP
.B -T, --edit-times
Alter times for individual user/group/project when softlimit is enforced. Times
.B block-grace
and
.B inode-grace
are specified in seconds or can be string 'unset'.
.TP
.B -a, --all
Go through all filesystems with quota in
.B /etc/mtab
and perform setting.
.PP
.I block-softlimit
and
.I block-hardlimit
are interpreted as multiples of kibibyte (1024 bytes) blocks by default.
Symbols K, M, G, and T can be appended to numeric value to express kibibytes,
mebibytes, gibibytes, and tebibytes.
.PP
.I inode-softlimit
and
.I inode-hardlimit
are interpreted literally. Symbols k, m, g, and t can be appended to numeric
value to express multiples of 10^3, 10^6, 10^9, and 10^12 inodes.
.PP
To disable a quota, set the corresponding parameter to 0. To change quotas
for several filesystems, invoke once for each filesystem.
.PP
Only the super-user may edit quotas.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B aquota.user or aquota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B quota.user or quota.group
quota file at the filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
mounted filesystem table
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR edquota (8),
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotactl (2),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
.BR repquota (8)
