.TH WARNQUOTA 8
.SH NAME
warnquota \- send mail to users over quota
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B warnquota
[
.B \-ugsid
] [
.B \-F
.I quotaformat
] [
.B \-q
.I quotatab
] [
.B \-c
.I configfile
] [
.B \-a
.I adminsfile
] [
.IR filesystem ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B warnquota
checks the disk quota for specified local filesystems (or for each local
filesystem if none specified) and mails a warning message to those users who
have reached their softlimit.  It is typically run via
.BR cron (8).
.TP
.B -F, --format=\f2quotaformat\f1
Perform setting for specified format (ie. don't perform format autodetection).
Possible format names are:
.B vfsold
Original quota format with 16-bit UIDs / GIDs,
.B vfsv0
Quota format with 32-bit UIDs / GIDs, 64-bit space usage, 32-bit inode usage and limits,
.B vfsv1
Quota format with 64-bit quota limits and usage,
.B xfs
Quota on XFS filesystem.
.TP
.B -q, --quota-tab=\f2quotatab\f1
Use
.I quotatab
instead of
.I /etc/quotatab
as file with device description strings (see
.BR quotatab (5)
for syntax).
.TP
.B -c, --config=\f2configfile\f1
Use
.I configfile
instead of
.I /etc/warnquota.conf
as configuration file (see
.BR warnquota.conf (5)
for syntax).
.TP
.B -a, --admins-file=\f2adminsfile\f1
Use
.I adminsfile
instead of
.I /etc/quotagrpadmins
as a file with administrators of the groups (see
.BR quotagrpadmins (5)
for syntax).
.TP
.B -u, --user
check whether users are not exceeding quotas (default).
.TP
.B -g, --group
check whether groups are not exceeding quotas. If group is exceeding quota
a mail is sent to the user specified in /etc/quotagrpadmins.
.TP
.B -s, --human-readable
Try to report used space, number of used inodes and limits in more appropriate units
than the default ones.
.TP
.B -i, --no-autofs
ignore mountpoints mounted by automounter.
.TP
.B -d, --no-details
do not attach quota report in email.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B aquota.user
quota file at the filesystem root (version 2 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B quota.user
quota file at the filesystem root (version 1 quota, non-XFS filesystems)
.TP
.B /etc/warnquota.conf
configuration file
.TP
.B /etc/quotatab
device description
.TP
.B /etc/quotagrpadmins
administrators of the groups
.TP
.B /etc/mtab
default filesystems
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
default set of users
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR quota (1),
.BR quotatab (5),
.BR quotagrpadmins (5),
.BR warnquota.conf (5),
.BR cron (8),
.BR edquota (8).
.SH AUTHORS
.BR warnquota (8)
was written by Marco van Wieringen <mvw@planets.elm.net>, modifications by Jan Kara <jack@suse.cz>.
This reference page written by Heiko Schlittermann <heiko@lotte.sax.de>, modifications by Jan Kara
