.TH DUMP-ACCT 8 "2006-04-22" "6.4pre1" "GNU Accounting Utilities"

.SH NAME
dump-acct \- print an acct file in human-readable format.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dump-acct
.RB [\| \-r \||\| \-\-reverse \|]
.RB [\| \-R \||\| \-\-raw \|]
.RB [\| \-\-format \|]
.IR version \|]
.RB [\| \-\-byteswap \|]
.RB [\| \-\-ahz \|]
.IR hertz \|]
.RB [\| \-n \||\| \-\-num
.IR recs \|]
.RB [\| \-h \||\| \-\-help \|]
.RB [\|
.IR files \|]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dump-acct
.I filename
prints a list of all executed processes. This list is written by the kernel
which must be compiled with BSD process accounting enabled (Debian kernel image
have it already enabled). It must be started with
.BR accton (5).
Note that on Debian systems, this is ensured via the init script
.IR /etc/init.d/acct .
.LP
All fields are separated by vertical line. Fields are:
.IR command ,
.IR version ,
.IR "user time" ,
.IR "system time" ,
.IR "effective time" ,
.IR uid ,
.IR gid ,
.IR memory ,
.IR io ,
.IR pid ,
.IR ppid ,
.IR time .
User, system and effective times are ticks per second. One tick is usually 1/50
of a second. The
.I time
field shows the start time of the process.

The 
.B \-\-raw
switch, as well as the 
.B \-\-format,
.B \-\-byteswap,
and
.B \-\-ahz
can be used as a handy format converter.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Prints the usage string and default locations of system files to standard output
and exits.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-num recs
Number of lines to print.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-reverse
Start printing from last records.
.TP
.B \-R, \-\-raw
Print raw records, not human-readable.
.TP
.B \-\-format version
Use specified format version to display records.
.TP
.B \-\-byteswap
Swap bytes endianness when reading records.
.TP
.B \-\-ahz
Use specified units of time to display data from other kernel versions and
architectures.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I acct
The system wide process accounting file. See
.BR acct (5)
for further details.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acct (5),
.BR ac (8).

.SH AUTHOR
The GNU accounting utilities were written by Noel Cragg <noel@gnu.ai.mit.edu>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Ognyan Kulev <ogi@fmi.uni-sofia.bg> and updated
by Daniel Baumann <daniel@debian.org> and Mathieu Trudel <mathieu.tl@gmail.com>
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
